hey everyone Laszlo Montgomery again
coming to you as always from the china
history podcast calm your regular source
for all the Chinese history fit to
podcast it's a free service brought to
you by the fine folks at the Montgomery
foundation we're in the fifth
installment of our cultural revolution
overview I thought we were going to get
to Leo xiaochi and his better half in
this episode but that might be in part
six or seven it's coming up today we
focus on a short but action-packed
period where chaos reigned and there was
high drama with even the Great One
himself mild sadang having to step in to
act as the decider but mostly it's
Joanne lai who has to use the full
extent of his prestige and authority to
deal with the impossible tasks at hand
Mao was throwing incendiary bombs all
over the place and Premiere Joe hits
cher mile on in a big same time run all
over the place and put out fires today
we're gonna linger in the crazy and
bloody year of 1967
if mouths objective was to create
massive chaos and China you know where
people were engaging in a whole lot of
ultra violence he succeeded you know
there are so many important characters
from this Cultural Revolution period who
played a major role at the time most of
them are forgotten are not well known at
least in the West though not headline
names today these characters and their
day played a starring role during the
lead-up to and in the management of the
Cultural Revolution I thought I would
sort of focus in on several of them and
introduce them in the context of today's
discussion there's so many people who
are coming to the fore both on the
leftist and the conservative side at
this point what we have in 1967 is
all-out warfare between two main
factions and mind you this is a big
generalization but it makes the whole
thing easier to digest you had two sides
in this whole Cultural Revolution thing
yet all those who were you know okay
with how everything was and lined up
against them were those who you know had
some sort of beef with the status quo
it's during this phase starting in early
1967 and exploding in the summer of 67
that this fire that Mouse started began
to burn out of control and all around
the world while this was going on in
China you know early to mid 1967 yet the
six-day war in Israel Expo 67 in
Montreal that this was the time Muhammad
Ali refused to go in the army to fight
in the Vietnam War Elvis who did serve
in the army
married Priscilla 67 it was the last
time the Toronto Maple Leafs won the
Stanley Cup sergeant pepper's came out
and remember I was living in Chicago at
the time and I remember summer of 67 as
when Richard Speck was convicted for
killing those 8 student nurses this was
the time in the USA when the Supreme
Court ruled you couldn't prohibit
interracial marriage in my lifetime
there were race riots in the US this was
when BBC one two three and four were
launched that September we ended last
time touching briefly on what became
known as the February counter-current
now before we get into that we won't dig
too deep let's name some names and get a
timestamp as to who they are in 1967
we'll discuss who these people are in
the context of you know today's episode
I have several names I'll mention let's
start first with the leftist we've
mentioned them many times and he's not
that well-known there's Chen ba da Chen
ba da was Mao's ghostwriter he was the
director of the CCR G central Cultural
Revolution group he made it to the
Standing Committee and made it to as
high as number four in the party he was
a major force during this period you
hear me mention Chen hua a lot then
there's a Wong Lee he plays a big role
today he was another ghostwriter in the
party and served initially
as director of the CCP international
liaison Department yeah the right
connections and he ended up succeeding
Tao Zhu as head of propaganda group and
got put in the CCR G he was famous for
his fire-breathing speeches and his
support to the radical left he was the
day-to-day mover and shaker in the CCR G
and actually and he was actually doing
stuff besides currying favor with Mao
and you know doing all kinds of
self-promotion so he had a nice tragic
ending that we won't get into today
there's also very important today chef
future Xie he was a military man who in
1967 was he was a vice premier and
minister of public security so in a word
he was important
he was the executioner for a lot of
senior cadres an old guard and had a
hand a lot of bad stuff and to show you
how bad Shifu chair was he suffered the
same fate as Cong Chun and that a lot of
these guys he was posthumously thrown
out of the party the others on this
leftist side you all know young king
kong Chun yawen in last episode we were
introduced to Wang home 1 and also on
this team is John Tran Chou he's the
deputy director of the CCR jie zhang
xuan chow he made it big in the
propaganda business so these guys among
dozens and dozens of others were the
forces of evil or good depending on your
jaw do they were the leftist they were
behind the rebels they were on Chairman
Mao's team they all saw the potential
benefits from you know an alliance with
my land all saw something in it for them
but you really have to tread carefully
when you throw your lot in with Chairman
Mao one minute you were in and one
minute you were screwed the goal of the
leftist in the Cultural Revolution was
to seize power from those in charge
you could call those in charge they were
the conservatives they represented the
status quo you know whether you loved it
or hated it they had a vested interest
in sort of
keeping things like they were you know
namely with them in charge although they
fought next to Mao during the revolution
once the PRC was established and
stabilized after a shaky start they sort
of turned their back on all the theory
principles that used to mean something
to them in the 20s 30s and 40s you know
with the People's Republic of China
finding its way in the world you know
they all had better and more important
things to do in China then you know get
mixed up in all this class struggle
business you know the main guys these
are founding elites of the party
yo Shao Qi dong Xiao ping Yuen shun-kun
Panda why China in Changi
yeah Chen Ying Li Shan yen punchin
looting ye have mentioned all these guys
before those were the Conservatives
today we're gonna focus in on the
Chicago of China the revolutionary city
of Wuhan in centrally located who Bay
province this is where the Wu Chang
uprising took place on double 10-day
1911 that spelled curtains for the Qin
Dynasty
so Wuhan this place was special in China
it's a very important place sort of you
know being in the middle and all it's a
strategic hub for just about anything
that has to get from one part of China
to another and it's right out of Young's
a river
remember July 16th 1966 this is where ma
made his historic Swim and going back a
thousand years this whole area has been
chock-full of historic tales and events
so in a word it's not the sexiest city
in China it's certainly one of the most
revolutionary we're gonna look at today
the top guy in the Wuhan Military Region
Chen zai Dao and his chief lieutenant
Jang Ha Na a general and he's a top
leader in the Wuhan politico military
establishment he was Chen side those
political commissar these are two
respected and professional military men
they were pongo high types professionals
all the way so
first loyal they knew what honour in the
military meant and used many of the same
codes of all army men all over the world
so in 1967 the PLA top brass wherever
they are you see everything going on in
China and Lin be all it's totally
deconstructing the entire PLA with all
these crazy pronouncements they're
trying their best to obey all party
directives which at this point were all
coming out of the CCR G and at the same
time they had to do their job you know
in the army the military establishment
is such an important region as Wuhan
controlled other provinces besides the
city of Wuhan and the province of Hebei
and the top guy there like I said that
was Chen Sydow he was the one tasked
with maintaining law in order on his
turf as in all the previous episodes of
the series the star of today's episode
is of course Chairman Mao you know you
can see he was very hands on during this
period he always knew everything that
was going on or at least the leftist see
crg spin on events we're gonna seem I'll
make a few missteps and although he
often tried to sound cavalier and you
know like you know whatever went wrong
he thought about it already yeah it
wasn't so bad whatnot he always had
something to say but by the middle to
end the 1967 even Mao knew the truth you
know no more Great Leap Forward
inflating economic figures to pie moppy
with with the Mao the numbers didn't
look good and the five-year plan was was
off the chaos of the Cultural Revolution
was affecting the economy including
agriculture of course you know in a bad
way all the sudden 1960-1961
seemed like it was only yesterday now on
paper you know there are all these rules
and the top leaders made all kinds of
pronouncements about scaling down the
violence don't use weapons don't do this
can't do that but it was no use no one
was paying attention to any of the fine
print the masses just read the headlines
of what Maya was saying or Jim Ching or
Lin Yao and bought
Kung hyung whatever nonsense these guys
blurt it out that's the message that was
heard so that's when all these power
seizures begin to happen in cities all
over China now I've never run a
government myself but from what I gather
it's a pretty complicated and
challenging thing to do especially if
you have a lot of people in the country
like a lot of things it's best when you
leave the important jobs to people who
know what they're doing
well the CCR Chi people and their
minions all over China were seizing
power and creating a total mess by doing
that thing they did you know turning the
establishment on its head things begin
to deteriorate so bad that Joe and Lai
has to go to Mao and suggest perhaps you
know maybe it's not such a bad idea if
the PLA sends soldiers into all the
ministries so Mao says you know okay and
suddenly civilian government dissolves
and you have the PLA in charge of you
know everywhere to maintain order what
happened to everyone who was previously
running the government well almost all
of them sooner or later got sent down
you know in 1968 mostly to what we're
known as May 7th cadre schools we'll get
into that later now having the military
running the government presented some
risks to Ma
he wasn't entirely comfortable with the
idea but as long as lianbao remain loyal
to him and in control of the PLA he was
good but still my was a man who didn't
trust anyone too far so he had to keep
the military from getting too powerful
let's look at Shanghai for a second and
the whole Shanghai combien the greatest
violence going on in China was in
Beijing as Shanghai in Beijing the Red
Guard violence was led by the students
mostly in Shanghai though the students
and workers split early on and the
muscle and the brains of the red guard
rebel movement in Shanghai was led by
the workers who I'm going out on a limb
here but saying this but they were much
rougher and a much tougher lot than
their student brothers and sisters and
as we mentioned in the last episode
one home one a firebrand leftist worker
he was the nians of Shanghai and that he
is credited with you know pasting up
that first dots of ball or big character
poster down in Shanghai the camping Road
incident December 30th 1966 this was led
by Wang Hong won and pitted the radicals
against the Shanghai party establishment
was a terribly violent struggle and Mao
sat on his hands and let the party
stalwarts there go down in flames it
also sent a signal to everyone in China
who was paying attention that all this
violence was ok and no one had to worry
about you know getting in any trouble if
things got out of hand
Mao wasn't frowning on this at all
January 16 1967 the rebels are in full
control of Shanghai and ma you know
gives it his official thumbs up and this
is the beginning of what became known as
the Shanghai combien though Mao made
them change the name later on to the
Revolutionary Committee of Shanghai
municipality CCR Chi member John 2000
made the top guy there in Shanghai with
y'all when your and as his deputy and
whenever these two guys had to go to
Beijing for meetings which was quite
often their deputy was Wang home 1 so
you can see how this future getting a
four-member is already quickly rising to
prominence those in the provinces saw
what happened in Shanghai and although
you know it was quite a violent upheaval
Chairman Mao still said it was ok so all
this violence spread quickly to the
provinces of China and you had similar
power seizures like in Shanghai you know
those running the government were dealt
with you know in all kinds of ways and
leftist radicals took control of the
daily levers of power now the radicals
weren't always successful many times
they were beaten back it's not like you
know the ones in charge just laid over
and died this was why you had so much
violence and killing all over China not
everyone wanted to be a Red Guard not
everyone wanted to turn China upside
down he had plenty of common everyday
people
you know total incomplete sping mean you
know who felt what the hell this is
crazy to be doing all this stuff what's
wrong with the way it is you know a lot
of these people who supported the status
quo they fought back so sometimes the
rebels didn't succeed in trying to seize
power from the local government and
party officials but when a Power seizure
succeeded like in Heilongjiang Shandong
guacho Shaanxi Beijing and elsewhere the
party center which again was pretty much
the CCR Jie gave the rebels in charge
instant recognition and legitimacy now
the party center in Beijing they were
having a major struggle with different
leftist factions they were all
contending for power there whenever
these high-profile struggles went on
we'll see guys are sent in to deal with
it but when it reaches a certain boiling
point and no one could solve the problem
you have to call premier Joe next to
having Mao himself come in and decide
the only one in China who could walk in
and act as a referee and had that
prestige that was Joe in life so he got
called in to clean up the factional
fighting in Beijing and you know sort
out the creation of the new Beijing
Revolutionary Committee you know that
act that is the new city government he
did this on April 20th 1967 by the
spring of 67 Joanne Lai starts trying to
talk some sense into Mao and convinces
him to tone things down with all the red
guards and hooligans you know getting a
free ride on the government traveling
everywhere and creating strain on
municipal resources so Mao finally
agrees and announcements start going out
that you know in so many words said no
more free lunches or you know places to
flop everyone go home back to your towns
villages or wherever you know in more
and more places became marked as you
know off-limits the fun was over most of
1966 and the first half of 67 everyone
got to have their fun now it was back to
work you know primary schools were
opened and after a while the same thing
happened with the middle schools and
then later on to colleges you know back
to school for everyone new rules came
with respect to who you could and
couldn't Rafa you couldn't just go after
any party official and the call was sent
out to you no return whatever property
was stolen you know from all these Red
Guard raids you know from whoever
and anyone who talked about forming any
national red guard organizations were
forbidden to do so yeah you could only
talk local there was this term called
rusticated youth searching yin searching
these were all educated city youth who
got sent down to the countryside mostly
in the 50s early 60s to more or less eke
out a miserable existence there they
were all able to take advantage of the
chaos of the Cultural Revolution and you
know the travel freedoms to get back
into the cities but now they were all
being sent back again you know and after
tasting a few months of the good life
you know that the cities had to offer
the last thing they wanted to do was go
back to their homes out the sticks after
going off the rails mining and Industry
began to be put back to the way it was
the PLA role in all this cannot be
underestimated they maintain security
law and order they were power brokers
determining who would and wouldn't get
their support for their particular power
seizure if you were a Red Guard group or
you know coalition and you were looking
to overthrow your local party committee
not unless the local pla garrison
supported you did you have any chance so
they played a role in supporting the
rebel takeover of the government at the
provincial and local level in 1967 there
were all kinds of things coming out from
the party center that tried to you know
make sense of everything march 19th he
had the three supports and the two
militaries campaign announced by the
Military Affairs Commission the ma C and
of course Mao was the chairman of the
NAC this campaign said the military
supports the three groups that were you
know the left the peasants and the
workers and it also said the PLA carries
out military training and military
control so the PLA is always in the
thick of everything trying to restore
order all over China
fought these battles and refereed these
power seizures and these provincial
military leaders had to still support
the rebels but they also had to maintain
order this was not easy to do and
downright impossible in most cases but
after someone or other whispered in
mouths air about these heavy-handed
tactics being taken by the PLA against
the rebels out in the provinces Mao says
on April 1st the PLA was being too rough
so he takes out their fangs and they can
no longer do what was necessary to
maintain some semblance of order Mao had
signed the eight-point order of January
28 1967 that gave all this power
initially to the PLA but now we see
again Mao goes and flip-flops and
follows up with this 10-point order of
April 6th and this takes away all the
power from the PLA and gives it back to
the rebels and Mao you know you have a
change of heart that's all he was he was
the chairman he could do whatever he
wanted so all this time the PLA had been
clashing with rebel groups now with
Mao's April 10-point order there now the
appeal they was on the run and the
rebels were aching to get even and you
know that's what they did right away you
had a whole spate of anti PLA riots
where you know rebels just turned on
that it flared up at once as everyone
was looking to get even Mao tried to
intervene you know make nice but he was
ignored a lot of this was personal I
mean once you once you lit that
magnesium it wasn't so easy to blow out
the fire now this was a major headache
for the CCR G they totally needed the
support of the you know old guard
military without the PLA backing them up
and this was you know Lin biallas main
job they'd be gone in a second but the
CC ERG was also the big brother to all
the radical civilian rebels so they had
to show full support always to these
guys this was a difficult balance you
know these two sides supporting the PLA
and supporting the rebels you know who
were now killing each other as CCR G had
to support one or the other
now I briefly mentioned this in the last
so at the end Wow out of sheer
frustration at how incompetent the CCR G
was you know performing gave them a
major dressing down in February 10th
particularly to Chen Botha and Jiang
Ching what triggered this was the way
fellow politburo member and central
propaganda group leader Tao Chu was
dragged down mile protected him at first
but later on hit the let him go
Tao true was replaced by Wang Li who I
mentioned before he's gonna play a
starring role later
so mouse snaps at the CCR G in February
which that's what gave these
conservative old guard guys the
confidence to speak up and you know
against everything that they saw was
degrading Society so they started to
fight back and this short period where
the Conservatives made this one
last-ditch effort to bring this madness
to an end this was known as the February
counter-current and those who led the
charge we're you know Vice premiers yeah
Chen Ying Changi tangent line Li
xiannian
as well as the military stalwart Xu
Chang Chen what followed were two
extremely heated meetings between these
two groups this was members of the CCR G
and then these old guard legends these
military men wanted to know if the CCR
Chi intended to dispose of the central
government just like it allowed Shanghai
to fall they also inquired if every
single senior leader was to be disposed
of and lastly they wanted to know was
the PLA to be destabilized what resulted
was just a verbal brawl and in the heat
of the moment you know things were said
that maybe you know shouldn't have been
said yet yin yang would scream that
chant Botha that you know he meaning the
CCR Chi that he had that Chen board are
headed had made a mess of the party a
mess of the government a mess of the
factories in the countryside and now he
was making a mess of the army as well
these marshals and Vice premiers really
thought because of who they were you
know their relationships with Mal going
back to the beginning that they had the
Chairman on their side
but they didn't all the angry words
spoken up in those two meetings were
reported back tomorrow by his CCR G
people and they rushed to meet Maui
before premier Joe got to him and they
just spoon-fed mile all the details you
know in such a way that they knew were
sure to infuriate him and you know he
did get angry and he felt betrayed that
you know his old comrades were so
against him on this but worst of all and
to this day he is criticized for this
Joe Enlai did not rise to their defense
or join in on the demand to use reason
and practical measures to manage the
country Joe sat on his hands and
probably for good reason he knew exactly
where miles stood on this and to support
marshals Chun she yeah and this matter
was to invite a certain confrontation
with Mao so mile turned on them and they
were all now on the defensive in all
throughout China the old guard of the
PLA and all those who saw allowing
radicals without military experience to
take over the day-to-day management to
the PLA and to politicize the army like
they were this was not a good thing and
with my latest pronouncements in April
the 10-point order he was allowing these
radicals to struggle with the army and
you know to hold all this authority to
seize power from the established order
this all leads up to the Wuhan incident
of July 20th 1967 this is where the
Cultural Revolution reached a kind of
tipping point where the whole thing
began to descend into civil war in the
fall of 1966 there were two red guard
factions in Wuhan by January 67 there
were more than 50 the Wuhan
revolutionary rebel General Headquarters
was formed to carry out the seizure of
power in Wuhan and obey this coalition
split up from the start into three
groups called the steel tempered second
headquarters steel tempered workers
general and the steel tempered September
13th factions the Wuhan steel tempered
three they were called they were you
know organized and itching
for a fight Chen Saito was wise to what
was going on and he wasn't gonna let the
whole Wuhan and hope a military
apparatus fall into rebel hands he
wasn't going to allow Han to degrade
into Anarchy he took control of all the
most sensitive parts of the government
you know broadcasting stations banks
granaries warehouses you know etc and of
course all the while they did this under
the guise of you know supporting the
revolutionary masses Chen and Jang
Hanwha had met with Mao and Jo and the
message they got from the meeting which
was the wrong message was to do whatever
possible to support the masses most of
all the leftists and to maintain order
tall order indeed they thought moment'
maintain order is the first priority and
allow the leftist to rampage you know a
second in importance but with Mao it was
always the other way around
Chen Sydow had two or three thousand
leading rebels and these steel tempered
workers general arrested and carries out
actions that more or less lead to
collapse of the main radical groups and
to make sure there was no cancer from
within
Hatchin was taken to root out any
radical elements within the pla to Mao
was hoping there'd be a close
cooperation between the PLA the old
guard and the rebels but instead what
happened was the PLA and the old guard
were you know teaming up to silence and
marginalize the rebels
so when Mao did his flip-flop thing on
April 6 with a 10-point order incited
against the generals and in favor of the
leftist rebels it was a major cause for
concern for Chen zai though you know
after all these PLA crackdowns the
resulting wave of attacks against the
PLA were immediate and violent Chen was
also subject to all kinds of efforts to
bring him down they even called him the
tangent line of Wuhan tangent line was
prominent in the February
counter-current and the past actions of
the Wuhan Military Region leaders were
being compared to the actions taken by
Chen Yi yajante intentionally nets
back in February they were going against
the grain the rebels in Wuhan at once
began their attempt to seize power in
the city they got control of the
newspapers Chen Saito and Chong Hanwha
met with the CCR ji on April 16th to
sort this out it seemed that the CCR ji
was you know gonna see things their way
and show some sympathy you know for
their reasoning but their soft line on
the Wuhan Military Region leaders was
leaked to conservative elements in Wuhan
and in no time at all word spread that
the ccr ji was lining up with the
Military Region folk and when this got
back to Gen Chang that someone leaked
the outcome of the meeting you know
whatever was decided was rescinded and
there was no deal the ccr ji pulled
their support in fact there was no deal
either way so no one knew what was up in
Wuhan so in mid-may the two opposing
sides in Wuhan began to draw their
battle plans and here enters the million
heroes the by Wan show sure this faction
was about half a million strong they
supported Chen Sydow in the way he was
handling everything the core of this
group was comprised of everyone who had
a reason to maintain the status quo
this included party members government
officials youth leagues you know older
workers and militiamen and others lined
up against them were all those rebels
and factions that didn't have it so good
you know pre 1966 they wanted anything
but the status quo the million heroes
also made it known in one way or another
as far as this whole you know Cultural
Revolution thing was concerned it was
all fine and well that they didn't
really need it down where they were in
Hebei in May and all of June these two
main factions clashed in a series of
very bloody and gory confrontations the
weapons of the day were lances and
knives and it was nasty hand-to-hand
combat most of the time the million
heroes aggressively moved against the
rebels and their attempts to seize back
buildings and whatnot that had been
seized by the rebels since April and
orders from bate
to cool it and settle down were ignored
on June 24th another appeal for the
party center came to not use weapons and
to settle down but it went unheeded and
on that day June 24th the million heroes
in a deadly show of force they captured
the rebel workers revolutionary
headquarters and keep in mind it's not
like everyone had a dog in the fight a
lot of people were fighting on both
sides simply as mercenaries for money or
you know for some other reason this
wasn't anything related to class
struggle or evolution he was all about
preserving and seizing power by the end
of June the million heroes were in total
control and they had to beat a lot of
heads to attain power and Wuhan things
then cool down and the ccr chi called
the representatives from both sides to
come to Beijing and let's settle this
whole thing but then suddenly Chairman
Mao says forget it he'll go down to
Wuhan but you know because of who he was
and all and because of the dangerous and
unstable situation in Wuhan you know
he'd go down there secretly and allow a
future and Wong Lee to serve as the
voice of the party center you know do
all the negotiations Jo and like also
you know his physical presence in Wuhan
was kept a secret except you know from a
corfu at the top of the wall had
military region leadership Joe talks to
Chen Sydow and Zhang Han hua and it
falls to Shia fujur and Wong Lee to go
talk to the rebels and to add to the
tension a bunch of red guards had also
just flown in from Chongqing to stir
things up and jump into the fray she a
food chair you know the Minister of
Public Security he had been flying all
over China trying to keep things from
spiraling out of control you know he had
his hands full the presence of such
party center luminaries from Beijing as
you know Xie Fujairah and Wong Lee was
supposed to have been kept a secret
everything was very tense and the last
thing anyone wanted was to spark some
incident or attract attention while
things were you know being worked out
but Xie and Wong somehow weren't careful
and they got noticed and of course
everyone knew who they were you know
when where they stood on everything so
if you were sympathetic to the million
heroes these were the bad guys
so they got noticed and even though Joe
told these guys to lay low so their
presence suddenly out of nowhere serves
as a lightning rod for both factions to
vent their splain and things in wuhan
get hot real fast and the whole existing
conservative political military
establishment was in full
self-preservation mode and they saw
themselves as being unfairly targeted
and being painted into a corner they
were not gonna back down in the face of
these rebels and they made it clear they
didn't care who said what not even what
the premier said despite all that there
were a series of stormy meetings between
July 15th to 18th headed by Joe and I of
course and both sides you know really
let the other one have it on July 18th
the big showdown comes and Joe takes ten
Sydow and John Hanwha to go see Mao who
as I said was already in Wuhan Mao plays
this one you know in such a way that he
tells them yeah you know just write a
confession let's not make a big deal you
know this will all go away so the way it
ends you know it seemed both both sides
were happy now although it seemed like
the Wuhan Military Region leaders
weren't exactly backing down you know in
a way it could have been spun that way
and so that is indeed what happened see
a future went straight to his people and
and said you know Chinese I Dow head
back down and you know Mao had sided
with the leftists on this issue and word
spreads like wildfire July 18th 19th
about this you know so-called
capitulation on the part of Chen side
all and then to turn this into a
complete spectacle all the rebels start
gloating and you know fiery inflammatory
speeches were given by Shia future and
Wong Lee when I was said and done Chen
side I later admitted it was those
speeches by Shia and Wong that directly
led to the wuhan incident that night
July 19 1967 chef-owner and Wong Lee
faced down the top Wuhan Military Region
hot brass and among other things you
know talk down to them spoke arrogantly
to them and you know demanded they make
a hundred and eighty degree turn on you
know where their loyalties lie and all
the while outside the gates of the
military region headquarters compound
you know where the meeting was taking
place
a crowd of million heroes began to
gather which you know soon numbered in a
thousands and they block the gates and
they were all screaming out you know all
kinds of angry demands the problem
started when the speech is given by chef
wheelchair and wanly were broadcast to
the nation
now these million heroes demanded that
wanly come out and explain himself with
you know what he meant by those
inflammatory words he said wrongly you
know in so many words tells him to piss
off remember this guy a central
government stuff he's not some
provincial so he's not gonna give in to
these guys the leaders that you know
quietly exit the headquarters and head
to the guest house where you know
everyone was holed up chance I Dow meets
with chef Luger you know to try and sort
things out and find some way to put out
the fire but then suddenly a huge mob of
million heroes tracks them down and
angrily demands to see Wan Li in Chen
zai Dao you know defuses the situation
and promises you know hey I'll get you
chef's future to come see you the next
day
and this placates them for the time
being then the angry mob you know
elements of the mob it became unruly and
Chen side now himself is attacked and
he's blamed for you know backing why'd
you back down to Mao and someone then
tracked down Wan Li and they kidnapped
him and they dragged him back to the you
know Military Region headquarters where
the meeting had just been held you know
were they just wail on him and beat him
and they break his leg Shifu jerk you
know runs to tell Mao what's going on he
says they got Wong Lee and he demands
that Chen side I'll go deal with this
and get Wan Li back safe Chen was still
out of action at this point heal from
the beating that had just taken place so
Zhang Han qua goes instead now up in
Beijing Lin Bo and other CCR Chi
elements start spreading rumors that
you see Chen Sydow he's attempting to
launch a coup and therefore late in the
night of the 20th
in fact it was the 21st two in the
morning the top leaders they all depart
for Shanghai Wow
couldn't have been too happy being you
know the big guy in all having to flee
for his safety in the middle of the
night Xie future and Chong Hanwha failed
to get Wang Li released however some
high ups in the military region top
brass they managed to pull a few strings
and was able to get Wan Li transferred
to a safe place at Air Force
Headquarters in Wuhan and then in the
wee hours of July 22nd Wan Li and chef
future fly back to Beijing the Joe and
Lai flies back as well from where he was
and he's there to triumphantly greet
them as those to chef future Wan Li
arrive at the airport Beijing meanwhile
back in Wuhan things were out of control
the Wuhan Military Region headquarters
have been taken over by million heroes
elements the first thing the ccr ji did
after she and Wong spill their guts
about everything and everything about
you know the million heroes Chen zai
Jiao Zhang Han hua you know the first
thing they did was to brand this
so-called July 20th incident as a
counter revolutionary revolt then on
July 23rd Joe Li tells these guys they
have to come to Beijing to face the
music they follow orders and they go up
there the next day July 25th there's
this huge Tiananmen Square rally
standing room only crowd million people
on hand to welcome back Wang Li and chef
vulture you know after their our deal
down in whoo-ha the entire top
leadership except ma was on hand for
this rally and it was lost on no one in
the military that's standing on the
viewing platform with the CCR Jie who
backed the leftist rebels was none other
than Lynn DL
who showed once and for all that he
stood with the CCR G and not with his
PLA brothers and arms the next day on
the 26th Chen zai Jiao Zhang Han
and ten other officers from the military
region were struggled something fierce
by top representatives of the Politburo
m.a.c and the CCR G the proceedings were
led by chef future and a man we'll be
hearing a lot about later this was
general wolfish in the commander of the
air force these whole proceedings were
even by farcical standards a farce of a
farce and no one from Wuhan was allowed
to speak in their defense they were just
hammered relentlessly and insulted and
John King too you know was screeching at
them and you know piling on with
everyone else these two guys you know a
military top brass and who is she his
mouths wife but they had to take it and
it said that when wolfish in slugged
Chen zai Dao during an intense session
Cheung Yee and Tang Shen Ling stood up
and walked out to add on top of this the
CCR G allowed some of their goons to go
rough all these Wuhan guys up you know
later on July 27th the next day was all
over Chen Saito and Chong Hanwha were
dismissed and there was a complete
makeover carried over at the Wuhan
Military Region they totally cleaned
house there and soon afterwards the
whole million heroes movement just kneel
collapsed and died the rebels were
victorious and had beaten back the
million heroes and the established order
a new revolutionary government was now
set up in Wuhan with the leftists in
charge and as soon as this was a fete
accompli the retribution killings began
and ho bay alone 184 thousand people who
were you know with the million heroes
are supportive of them were hunted down
by the rebels and persecuted many of
them beaten to death once the rebels had
taken control of the military region
power structure they began to raid the
weapons depot and begin arming
themselves and what happened in Wuhan
was happening albeit on a smaller scale
all throughout China it was open civil
warfare all throughout 1967 and into
1968 and just when a comforting
word or some assurance would have been
nice John Chang goes and opens up her
big mouth and says in a well-publicized
remark attack with reason defend with
force everyone you know made of this
whatever they wanted and like so often
before it inflamed matters and resulted
in more violence and more death Wow in
the meantime must have been thinking you
know what could he do to make matters
worse he felt that as much as 75% of the
whole military was still controlled by
these you know old guard forces
sympathetic to Chen's eyedolls line of
reasoning so amidst all that was
beginning to happen with all this armed
violence Mao says let's arm the leftist
so that the fight for control of the
military is more even yeah you can say
this might have been mouths you know
knee-jerk reaction coming on the heels
of what had just gone down in Wuhan the
man you know who coined the phrase power
grows out of the barrel of a gun was you
know more scared than ever of a possible
PLA revolt so he had to make sure they
sign his side wiley got sent back to
what was now rebel friendly Wuhan to
oversee the arming of the leftist there
the arming of the left began first in
Wuhan and also in Hunan province this
was another one of those things that
everyone thought was really a bad idea
but despite you know everyone's
misgivings no one was anxious to rock
the boat with Mao at such a time so all
these leftists who it just got their
faces kicked in by the Conservatives
were never more than now
bitching for a little old-fashioned
retribution and ultra violence and to
top it all off now thanks to Chairman
Mao and his infinite wisdom were being
armed with weapons and ammo and best of
all they had the Chairman's full support
the whole arming of the left was carried
out in August 1967 this led to you know
something like 3040 clashes a day and
this was going on all over China a Wuhan
style revolt was also going on in
Hangzhou and to a lesser extent in
Chongqing and not even mouths direct
interference in these Affairs could
quell the
fighting the factions were at war with
each other and this was wreaking havoc
on China's industrial production and the
economy in general forty million dollars
earmarked for grain imports got diverted
to import steel instead due to the drop
in production this is the kind of stuff
that was beginning to happen everywhere
and although this will be a future topic
for another day as all this was going on
in the summer of 67 you also hit the
Hong Kong riots they had broken out in
the spring of 67 and went on until
October that year and as with most
out-of-control matters Joanne ly got
called in to put out the flames he had
to tell all these hot-headed pro-china
leftists in Hong Kong to cool it already
anyway I'll cover this in detail another
time on August 22nd 1967 the CCR G let
fly some ultimatum to the British
Embassy in Beijing to release you know
certain prisoners who have been
convicted in Hong Kong on terrorism
charges and the British you know in so
many words told them to stuff it and the
next thing you know yet an angry mob of
arak 10,000 people surrounding the
embassy there it's in Beijing and the
phone lines were cut 10:30 p.m. a flare
is shot in the air as a signal and the
mob storms the embassy there were 18 men
and five women you know are inside the
embassy and they all crammed into this
panic room or whatever and the building
is torched and all kinds of documents
and equipment was stolen the British
Embassy people somehow escaped through a
secret tunnel but when they emerge they
you know stick out like a sore thumb and
they're instantly recognized by the
crowd and they're set upon and before
they're torn to bits
some brave PLA soldiers find a way to
escort them to safety but you know one
british embassy official later died of
his wounds the whole matter of Hong Kong
was a big open wound that got all
infected during this time during the
Cultural Revolution 1967 saw the worst
of it well we're way beyond our normal
podcast episode length so let's just put
the bookmark back in we'll pick up with
more action next time for now this is
your humble host and narrator Laszlo
Montgomery wishing you all the very best
I'm signing off from America's
playground good ol Las Vegas Nevada Las
ohso
I'm here at the area high above city
center on the Las Vegas Strip back in
Cali tomorrow after the usual drive
through the Mojave Desert and a gyro
plate at the mad Greek and beautiful
Baker home of the world's tallest
thermometer join me next time if you
please for another explosive episode of
the cultural revolution podcast take
care everyone